---
title: "Step-by-Step Part 2: Upload"
tags: [typeset,stepbystep]
---
 
<html><body><section data-type="chapter" class="hsecchapter" data-hederis-type="hsecchapter" id="step-by-step-2" data-pi-attrs="id: step-by-step-2; data-tags: typeset,stepbystep;" role="doc-chapter" data-tags="typeset,stepbystep" data-author-name=" " data-book-title=" " title="Step-by-Step Part 2: Upload"><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pECvx23O9">Upload your Word manuscript to Hederis. You can upload a Word manuscript by dragging-and-dropping your .docx file from your computer onto the project dashboard window. Hederis will automatically attempt to apply some semantic styling and attach the full Hederis style set to the exported .docx file. </p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="p7WhAGFRD">Download the new .docx file from your project dashboard. You can find the .docx download button on the left side of the screen, beneath the cover image holder.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="p1LAloYXX">In that same list of buttons, you&#8217;ll also see download buttons for the PDF, EPUB, and special Kindle EPUB (designed to work with the Kindle format specifically)&#8212;these are the files that you&#8217;ll share with reviewers, printers, retailers, etc. You can also download the latest HTML versions of your book text, to post excerpts on your website or use in whatever way you like.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pHP4GxLKE">Open the file in Word and review the paragraph styles/coding and adjust as needed. (You can also do this in the Hederis Edit Text pane.) You can also send this Word file to a copyeditor or other collaborator to review and adjust the styling as part of their manuscript prep work (or invite them as collaborators in your Hederis project).</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pVaa9bqfF">Start the design in Hederis. There are a few ways to start designing in Hederis. If you just want to dive in with a clean slate, you can simply click the &#8220;Design&#8221; tab in the top navigation menu, or choose any chapter from the dropdown menu above your dashboard steps. Both will take you to the Design preview.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pq7Hy9WP9">If you want to clone a design template from one of your other projects, on your Hederis project dashboard, go to &#8220;Step 4: Design Your Book&#8221; and choose &#8220;Clone a Template From&#8230;&#8221; Then choose &#8220;From Another Project&#8221;, and choose the template that you want to clone. This will create a copy of that template that you can then customize as needed.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pduzAWJNm">If you want to use one of the Hederis pre-designed templates, follow the steps above except choose &#8220;From Public Templates&#8221; in the second to last step.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="ppKI0Eacl">All design templates are fully customizable for every book.</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="plmHa4Yr5">Set your book trim size. Open the Design preview (by clicking the Design tab in the top navigation menu, or by choosing a chapter from the drop down list)</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pTig73kYR">Master pages, running headers, page numbers</p><p class="hblkp" data-hederis-type="hblkp" id="pVLvP1Hux">You can see what your final product will look like at any time by clicking the &#8220;Rebuild&#8221; button on your Project Dashboard. </p></section></body></html>
